Transcript (บทบรรยายถอดจากเสียง) โดยละเอียด ของวิดีโอทั้ง 3 ฉากจากภาพยนตร์ Jurassic Park (1993) ครับ:

1. DNA Hook (Mr. DNA Scene)
🔗 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mDTaykXudVI

Scientist: ...of the entire planet. So, what are you thinking? We're out of a job?

Ian Malcolm: Don't you mean extinct?

John Hammond: Well, why don't you all sit down. Uh, Donald, sit down. Sit down right here. Here he comes.

John Hammond (in animation): Well, here I come!

John Hammond (real): Hello! Hello! Say hello! Say hello!

Animated Hammond: Hello, John.

John Hammond (real): Oh, yes, I've got lines. Oh, fine, fine, I guess. But uh, how did I get here?

Animated Hammond: Uh, well, let me show you. First, I'll need a drop of blood. Your blood.

John Hammond (real): Right. Oh, John, that hurt!

Animated Hammond: Relax, John, it's all part of the miracle of cloning!

Cloned Animated Hammonds: Hello, John! Hello, John! Hello! Hello, John!

Alan Grant: Extraction has never recreated an intact DNA strand...

Ellie Sattler: Master sequence caps, good afternoon.

Alan Grant: DNA from what source? Where do you get 100-million-year-old dinosaur blood?

Mr. DNA: What? What? Oh! Mr. DNA! Where did you come from? From your blood! Just one drop of your blood contains billions of strands of DNA, the building blocks of life! A DNA strand like me is a blueprint for building a living thing. And sometimes, animals that went extinct millions of years ago, like dinosaurs, left their blueprints behind for us to find. We just had to know where to look!

Mr. DNA: A hundred million years ago, there were mosquitoes, just like today. And just like today, they fed on the blood of animals, even dinosaurs! Sometimes, after biting a dinosaur, the mosquito would land on the branch of a tree and get stuck in the sap.

Mr. DNA: After a long time, the tree sap would get hard and become fossilized, just like a dinosaur bone, preserving the mosquito inside! This fossilized tree sap, which we call amber, waited for millions of years with the mosquito inside, until Jurassic Park scientists came along!

Mr. DNA: Using sophisticated techniques, they extract the preserved blood from the mosquito, and BINGO! Dino DNA!

Mr. DNA: A full DNA strand contains three billion genetic codes. If we looked at screens like these once a second, for eight hours a day, it'd take two years to look at the entire DNA strand! It's that long!

Mr. DNA: Since it's so old, it's full of holes. Now that's where our geneticists take over! Thinking machine supercomputers and gene sequencers break down the strand in minutes, and virtual reality displays show our geneticists the gaps in the DNA sequence. We use the complete DNA of a frog to fill in the holes and complete the code. And now, we can make a baby dinosaur!

John Hammond: This score is only temporary. It all has very dramatic music, march or something, hasn't been written yet. And then, of course, the tour moves on.

John Hammond: Well, look!

Donald Gennaro: Behind... overwhelming, John. Are these characters... auto-erotica?

John Hammond: No, no, no. We have no animatronics here. Those people are the real miracle workers of Jurassic Park.

2. Hatching Baby Raptor Scene
🔗 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RLz5Api676Y

Dr. Henry Wu: Oh, good day, sir.

Alan Grant: It's turning the eggs.

John Hammond: Oh...
(ดนตรีและเสียงไข่ไดโนเสาร์กำลังฟักตัว Dr. Grant และคนอื่น ๆ ช่วยกันดูไดโนเสาร์แรกเกิด)

Ian Malcolm: There's no unauthorized breeding in Jurassic Park?

Dr. Henry Wu: Well, because all the animals in Jurassic Park are female.

Ian Malcolm: But again, how do you know they're all female? Does somebody go out into the park and pull up the dinosaurs' skirts?

Dr. Henry Wu: We control their chromosomes. It's really not that difficult. All vertebrate embryos are inherently female anyway. They just require an extra hormone given at the right developmental stage to make them male. We simply deny them that.

Ian Malcolm: John, the kind of control you're attempting is... it's not possible. If there's one thing the history of evolution has taught us, it's that life will not be contained. Life breaks free. It expands to new territories and crashes through barriers, painfully, maybe even dangerously, but... well, there it is.

John Hammond: You're implying that a group composed entirely of female animals will... breed?

Ian Malcolm: No, I'm simply saying that life... finds a way.

Alan Grant: It's PC scissors...

Alan Grant: It's a Velociraptor.

John Hammond: You bred Raptors?

3. T-Rex Escape Scene
🔗 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rc_i5TKdmhs

(เนื่องจากวิดีโอนี้เน้นเสียงบรรยากาศ เสียงเอฟเฟกต์ ความเงียบ และเสียงคำราม บทสนทนาหลักช่วงสำคัญมีดังนี้)

Tim Murphy: Did you feel that?

Lex Murphy: What is that?
(เสียงแก้วน้ำสั่นตามแรงสะเทือนก้าวเดินของ T-Rex)

Tim Murphy: Look at the water...

Donald Gennaro: Where's the goat?
(ชิ้นส่วนขาแพะตกใส่กระจกรถยนต์ Donald Gennaro วิ่งหนีออกจากรถด้วยความตื่นตระหนก)

Ian Malcolm: Boy, do I hate being right all the time.
(T-Rex หลุดออกจากรั้วไฟฟ้า พังรถ และส่งเสียงคำรามดังสนั่น)

Lex Murphy: (กรีดร้องขณะ T-Rex พยายามพังหลังคากระจกของรถยนต์)

Alan Grant: Keep still! Its visual system is based on movement. If we don't move, it can't see us.

Ian Malcolm: Hey! Hey! Over here!
(Malcolm จุดพลุเพื่อดึงดูดความสนใจ T-Rex เพื่อช่วยเด็กๆ ก่อนจะถูก T-Rex โจมตีจนพังห้องน้ำลงมาทับ)
